docs: restructures installation and moves legacy setups (#2111)
shopware/docs: guides/installation/installation-intro.md

---
nav:
  title: Shopware 6 Installation
  position: 1

---

# Overview of Shopware 6 Installation

Welcome to the Shopware 6 Developer Installation Guide, which will help you set up a local Shopware 6 development environment whether you’re:

- building a custom shop project
- developing a plugin, app, or theme
- contributing to the Shopware core

> Our setup is based on [Docker](https://www.docker.com/), a platform that enables developers to develop, ship, and run applications inside containers: lightweight, standalone, and executable packages. Docker enables production-like conditions consistent across teams and CI/CD, and makes it easy to reset or rebuild environments (`docker compose down -v`). When you need you need full service parity (e.g. caching, queues, search), Docker shines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Shopware 6 development environment is primarily supported and recommended to be used with [Docker](https://www.docker.com/). This platform enables developers to develop, ship, and run applications inside containers: lightweight, standalone, and executable packages. Docker enables production-like conditions consistent across teams and CI/CD, and makes it easy to reset or rebuild environments. Docker is especially useful when full service parity is required (e.g., caching, queues, search).
```

Our [Docker setup](./docker-setup.md) aims to provide a smooth onboarding experience aligned with modern development practices. It runs your entire Shopware environment in containers, including all backend services (PHP, MySQL, Node, an Elasticsearch-compatible search engine, Redis, Mailhog, etc.). No manual installation required.

> The pages that follow assume that you're using Docker itself. That said, the Shopware community has produced some related tooling for developers who prefer more automated or GUI-friendly ways to run Docker environments: DDEV and Dockware. Both are **community-maintained** and not officially supported by Shopware.

Author: @sushmangupta can you add "**The** Shopware community"?

## DDEV

[DDEV](https://ddev.com/) is a developer-friendly wrapper around Docker that automates environment setup using simple CLI commands. Community members enjoy these features:

- Simplifies Docker configuration: no manual `docker-compose.yml` needed.
- One command (`ddev start`) to start your Shopware environment.
- Easy to switch PHP/MySQL/Node versions per project.
- Integrates well with VS Code and PHPStorm.

[DDEV with Shopware example →](https://github.com/ddev/test-shopware6)

> ### Dockware setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Dockware
```
